One, of course, we're going through the Book of Colossians this year,
and our theme, Complete in Christ. I'm so thankful
for the Word of God. I'm so thankful for our position
in Christ. If you have trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior,
what a joy to be a child of the King. What a joy to know Him
and to be in Christ and know that He dwells within you.
And what great truth in the Word of God. We, of course,
had our introductory lesson to the Book of Colossians.
We looked at the first eight verses of Colossians chapter number one,
and this morning, before we get into verses 9 through 14, we're going to back
up and look at verse number three and deal with a subject matter that is of
significant importance. And the first few verses of this book,
the book that we refer to as the Book of Colossians,
we find that the Apostle Paul will make a statement that, if we're not careful,
is a statement that is easy for us to pass over.
But I believe that it's of great importance, and I believe that not only
is it of great importance, but the statement would have brought
a great level of encouragement to the recipients of this book.
I want you to notice in verse number three, the Bible says,
we give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.
Notice these four words, praying always for you.
Praying always for you. If you're taking notes, that's the title
for the message this evening. What a precious statement this is. Now,
remember, as we had our introduction to the Book of Colossians,
we've made note that Paul, the Apostle Paul, the human penman of this book,
he did not know the believers in Colossae personally.
He had received report from Epaphras with regard to this group of
believers in Colossae and this church that had been established,
but he himself had not met them and ministered amongst them personally.
Yet, we find that as we study the Book of Colossians, that the Apostle Paul
had a great heart for these individuals. He longed to meet them,
he loved them in the faith, and he's praying for them.
Now, I want you to consider that just for a moment, because the reality
is that we might, as we would think about our relationship one with another
as a body of believers, as a local church, we understand the
importance of praying one for another. And there may be some folks that we pray
for that we do not know personally. Maybe we hear about a missionary that
sends a report, and maybe we pray for someone, and you
may not have the opportunity to be able to communicate directly with them
to tell them that you're praying for them. But can you imagine
if you had that opportunity, the sense of encouragement that they would receive
by understanding that someone else is holding the ropes? I mean, consider
with me this morning the encouragement that we receive
when a brother and sister in Christ, when someone that we know,
that we fellowship along with, that they tell us, hey, I'm praying for you.
What a great privilege. The privilege of prayer is a unique privilege for the
child of God. We believe this morning that prayer
is not just some rote religious exercise. We believe this morning that prayer is
literally entering into the throne room of heaven,
that we have an intercessor, that we have a mediator,
that we can go to the throne of grace, and that we can receive
help in time of need, that we can pray one for another. In fact, we are
instructed to pray one for another. And as we
look at these few words, these four simple words
in Colossians 1 and verse number 3, we would find
the subject matter of intercessory prayer.
We speak about prayer and we understand the
prayer promises. Maybe even on Wednesday evening when I sent out the
prayer bulletin, I included a number of verses of Scripture this week
in my email that I sent out. What a great privilege it is as a child of God
to go before the throne room of heaven, to
understand that God Almighty, the sovereign God of the universe, that He
has extended an invitation that we would call upon Him,
that He has promised that He would hear us, and that He is
able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think. Begin to
zero in specifically on the subject matter before us this morning,
and think about the subject matter of intercessory prayer.
We would find that intercessory prayer is the
area of prayer, if I could use that terminology, when I
seek the face of Almighty God on the behalf
of others. That I'm no longer just going to prayer for my own
needs, for my own circumstances, for my own
situation, but I am entering into prayer. I am
going and seeking the face of Almighty God
on the behalf of others. Notice what the Scriptures say as Paul
is speaking here. We find in verse number one that it says,
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God
and Timotheus, our brother. Notice, to the saints and faithful brethren in
Christ, which are at Colossae, grace be unto you and peace from God
our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So in verses one and two, we find that he
establishes the authorship of the book and the
recipients of the book. He establishes that he is the human
penman for the book of Colossians. We understand
theologically, biblically, doctrinally, that all Scripture is given by
inspiration of God, but God did use human beings, and Paul
is the human penman of this book. And so that's established in verse
number one. In verse number two, the recipients is
established to the saints and faithful brethren in Christ, which
are at Colossae. So now when we come to verse number three,
he says, we give thanks. Who's we? Well, according to verse number one, it
would be Paul and Timotheus. We give thanks to God and the Father of
our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always
for you. So who's praying? Paul and Timotheus,
and they're praying for who? To the saints, to the faithful brethren
in Christ, which are at Colossae. And thus we understand the subject of
intercessory prayer, as we would consider this morning the
subject matter of intercessory prayer. If you're taking notes, I want you to
consider, first of all, with me the example
of intercessory prayer. The Bible is full of examples
of intercessory prayer. We're going to kind of walk through the Scriptures this
morning using Colossians 1 and verse number 3 as
our springboard. I want you to go back to the book of Romans, if you will,
and look in Romans in chapter number one. And as the Apostle Paul is addressing
these believers in Rome, we find that he again would give them this encouraging
word with regard to the subject of
intercessory prayer. As we look at these first set of verses,
we will understand, when we consider the example of
intercessory prayer, we'll understand how Paul
is praying for others. Notice in verse number nine of Romans 1,
the Bible says, well, let's look at verse number eight. First, I thank my God
through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is
spoken of throughout the whole world. For God is my witness, whom I serve with
my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing
I make mention of you always in my prayers.
Now, if you were one of these believers in Rome and you receive this letter
that the Apostle Paul has sent, the word of God, as we understand that
this book is inspired, and you receive this
letter and you receive this word, and Paul says that without
ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers. Paul's praying for
these believers in Rome. Turn to the book of Ephesians, if you will.
Ephesians chapter number one. And I want you to note,
really, there's a couple of passages in the book of Ephesians that we could look
to. There are a couple of specific prayers
that are outlined here in the book of Ephesians as Paul is praying for these
believers. But note with me in Ephesians 1, in
verse number 15, the Bible says this, wherefore I also, after I heard of your
faith in the Lord Jesus and love unto all the saints, cease
not to give thanks for you, making mention of you
in my prayers. So we find that in the book of Romans he says that without
ceasing, and here in the book of Ephesians he says that he
says, I cease not to give thanks for you all.
We understand that verse 16 does not include the I, but as we look at verse
number 15, we would understand that it's Paul that's
speaking, and in essence we could say that he's saying,
I cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you
in my prayers. He goes on here in Ephesians 1
to tell them how he's praying for them. That will be the subject of our next
study in the book of Colossians as we enter into verses 9 and following
in Colossians chapter number 1. We're going to look at Paul saying to these
believers in Colossae that he's praying always for them, but
then he says, here's how I'm praying for you.
How encouraging that is. Look over if you look in the book of Philippians, turn
over a few pages in Philippians chapter number 1.
In Philippians chapter number 1, in verse number 3, the Bible says this, I
thank my God upon every remembrance of you,
always in every prayer of mine for you all,
making request with joy.
Again, in the very first few verses of the book of Philippians, for these believers in
Philippi to understand that Paul is praying for them.
And he's letting them know that this is not just a situation where, hey, I'm going to
be seeing you in a little while, so I'm going to let you know that I'm praying for you,
so that you have…no, he's faithfully engaged in the work of intercessory prayer.
And he's letting people know, the example is all throughout the Scriptures.
First Thessalonians.
We'll look at a few more verses here in First Thessalonians chapter number 1.
You note here that he says in verse number 1, Paul and Silvanus and Timotheus unto the
church of the Thessalonians, which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ.
Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.
We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers.
He says to these same believers in the next book that he writes, Second Thessalonians,
if you want to jot it down, in chapter number 1 and verse number 11, he says, wherefore
also we pray always for you.
The book of Second Timothy.
Now, the book of Second Timothy is written not to a church, not to a group of believers
as these other books that we've read, that we've referenced up to this point, but we
understand the book of Second Timothy, First and Second Timothy, are written specifically
to Timothy, Paul's son in the faith.
And Paul will say to Timothy here in Second Timothy chapter number 1, notice again in
verse 1 and 2, the author, the recipient to Timothy, it says in verse number 2, but notice
in verse number 3, I thank God whom I serve for my forefathers with pure conscience that
without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers.
Notice what he says, night and day.
Now, we begin to understand as we've looked at these verses of Scripture this morning
and we find the example of intercessory prayer and we find that Paul is saying, without ceasing
I make mention of you always in my prayers.
He says, always in every prayer of mine, he says that here he says that he's praying
for them night and day.
What an example that we have in the Word of God of the importance of intercessory prayer.
We find that in the book of Philemon, again, a book that is written to an individual, not
to a church, but we find that here as Paul would be writing to this individual with the
name of Philemon, he tells him, I thank my God.
In Philemon, there's only one chapter, verse number 4, I thank my God making mention of
thee always in my prayers.
So we find as we begin to consider the example of intercessory prayer, we find that the Apostle
Paul is one that we can look to regularly and find how that he is communicating with
other people, other believers, I am praying for you.
On many occasions throughout the Scriptures, we did not take time to look at the entirety
of it, but on many of these occasions, he not only says I'm praying for you, but he
tells them how he's praying for them.
And when I understand as I read the Scriptures and I read the recorded prayers that God gives
us in his precious Word, when I read the prayers of the Apostle Paul, his intercessory prayers
for these individuals, I find that it goes far beyond, Lord, would you bless them, amen?
It's specific.
I would say this, if we're going to understand the importance and we see the example of intercessory
prayer, that we would understand that Paul is communicating with others, I'm praying
for you, and here's how I'm praying for you.
Not only does Paul say that I'm praying for you and give the example, but we find that
Paul then also requests that others would pray for him.
And this is interesting as we study the Word of God and we understand that Paul is saying,
hey, I am praying for you, and here's how I'm praying for you, but then Paul says, would
you pray for me?
I am involved, I am engaged in intercessory prayer on your behalf, but I want you to be
engaged in intercessory prayer on my behalf.
It is a privilege that we have as the people of God, as the children of God, and Paul says,
as we go back, go back to the book of Romans, if you will, we're going to march right through
the Scriptures again.
We mentioned already that in Romans chapter number 1, he tells those believers that he's
praying for them.
We notice in Romans chapter number 15 that near the end of the book, there's 16 chapters,
but here in the 15th chapter is Paul is making really some personal statements and some plans
that he has and giving some greetings in the 16th chapter and so on and so forth, that
near the end of the 15th chapter, in fact, in verse number 30, notice what he says, now
I beseech you.
Now, that's not a word that we use all of the time today, but we would, if we were to
use our terminology, we would say that Paul is in essence saying, I'm begging you.
I beseech you.
We see the use of the word in Romans chapter number 12, when he says, I beseech you therefore,
brethren, that you, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice,
wholly acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, and be not conformed to
this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind, that you may prove what is that
good and acceptable and perfect will of God.
He was begging them based on all that he had told them about the importance of presenting
their bodies a living sacrifice.
Now when he uses this word in chapter 15 and verse number 30, notice what he says, now
I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake and for the love of the Spirit,
notice what he says, that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me.
Notice what he says in verse 31, that I may be delivered from them that do not believe
in Judea, and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints,
that I may come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.
Now the God of peace be with you all, amen.
So we find that Paul says, I'm beseeching you that you would pray for me, and here's
how I want you to pray for me.
There were some specific things that Paul gave to the believers in Rome with regard
to their intercessory prayer for the Apostle Paul and for the work of the ministry.
Notice if you will, in Ephesians, we mentioned already that in the book of Ephesians that
Paul says that he's praying for those believers.
He outlines for them in the first chapter again.
We find that in the third chapter that Paul will outline a prayer for these believers
and how he's praying for them.
But as we go to the sixth chapter of the book of Ephesians, and he's nearing the end, he's
gone through the fact that we're engaged in spiritual warfare, that we need to put on
the whole armor of God, how important these truths are, that he says in verse number 18,
praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with
all perseverance and supplication for all saints.
Notice the first few words of verse 19, and for me.
So he tells them, you need to be engaged in prayer.
And by the way, you're praying not only for all of these saints at the end of verse number
18, being engaged in intercessory prayer, but then he says, and pray for me.
Notice what he says, that utterance may be given unto me that I may open my mouth boldly
to make known the mystery of the gospel, for which I am an ambassador in bonds, that therein
I may speak boldly as I ought to speak.
Now when you think about the Apostle Paul, honestly, do you think of an individual that
would need someone to pray for him to have boldness?
Honestly.
If you think about the Apostle Paul, if you've read the New Testament, if you've studied
the missionary journeys, if you've studied the travels and the ministries of the Apostle
Paul, you see that he is a man that has great boldness and great courage.
Would you agree?
But yet he says to these believers in Ephesus, pray for me that I would have boldness.
Wow.
Is that not something that we ought to be asking for people to pray for us to have boldness?
He says that utterance may be given unto me that I may open my mouth boldly to make
known the mystery of the gospel.
Wow.
We are to have boldness as we go out as the ambassadors, as the representatives of our
Lord and Savior Jesus Christ.
And Paul says, here's how I want you to pray for me.
Pray that I'd have boldness.
I'd like to think that the believers in Ephesus prayed that way.
Amen?
I'd like to think that if I were to send you a letter, if another brother or sister
were to send you a letter and say, hey, would you pray for me specifically about this thing?
I'd like to think that you would.
Amen?
When missionaries send us update letters, we have the opportunity to hear how things
are going and how God is working, but then they'll include, would you pray about these
things specifically?
So what do we do?
We engage in prayer.
We go before the throne of grace on the behalf of others, people that we may never meet until
glory.
We pray for them.
And then the encouragement comes, not only when we're able to send them a note and say,
I'm praying for you, and they receive encouragement, but the encouragement for us as the one praying
is when we get the next update letter.
and read about how so-and-so trusted Christ as their Savior,
about how so-and-so was invited to a special meeting,
and we begin to see how God answers prayer.
That's encouraging for us as the people of God.
Notice in the book of Colossians,
the passage in which we've dealt with here
is our springboard in verse number three of chapter one,
praying always for you.
But notice in Colossians chapter number four,
the Apostle Paul tells these believers in Colossae
in verse number two, continue in prayer
and watch in the same with thanksgiving.
Notice verse number three, with all,
praying also for us that God would open unto us
a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ
for which I am also in bonds
that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak.
Paul tells them in the beginning of the book,
I'm praying always for you.
Now would you pray for me?
And here's how I'd ask that you'd pray for me.
The example in the word of God of intercessory prayer.
Paul says it this way in first Thessalonians five
in verse 25, very simply, brethren, pray for us.
Pray for us.
He says it again in second Thessalonians chapter number three
in verse number one, he says,
finally, brethren, pray for us.
And we begin to understand and look to the word of God
and see the example of intercessory prayer.
We see it all throughout the New Testament.
We see these believers, these that have gone before us
that have understood the importance,
the significance of intercessory prayer,
the privilege of going to the throne room of heaven
on the behalf of others.
And not only does Paul share with us
that I'm praying for you,
and here's how I'm praying for you
as we read the Scriptures and the individual recipients,
but we find that Paul then says, would you pray for me?
You know, it's a great thing to look to God
and to understand that God is a God
who hears and answers prayer.
When I say to you, when you say to me, I'm praying for you.
What does it do for you?
I hope it encourages you.
And here's the reality, as fellow believers,
as Bible-believing Christians,
if brother Tony comes to me,
and I've known brother Tony for a long time,
and I understand that he's saved, that he's trusted Christ,
he's serving the same God and the God of the universe,
and he says to me, pastor, I'm praying for you.
You know what I understand about that?
I understand that Tony is going to the God of the universe,
the sovereign God on my behalf,
the God who is able to do exceeding,
abundantly above all that we ask or think.
Can I tell you how much different that is
than just somebody in the world that says,
actually, they've changed it.
Now they like to say, I'm thinking about you.
Am I right?
Seriously.
It used to be that they'd say, I'm praying for you.
Who are you praying to?
You don't believe in the same God that I believe in.
You're not serving the same God that I serve.
So who exactly are you praying?
Do you understand what I'm saying?
And so I'm not seeking, through this message,
to criticize those individuals.
That's not the point of my message.
That's not the point of the subject matter.
But what I want to encourage you with this morning
is that as fellow believers,
when we say that we're praying one for another,
when you communicate to me or I communicate to you
that I'm praying for you, that we serve the same God
and He is Jehovah God.
He is Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end,
the first and the last.
He is the omnipotent God who reigns,
who's able to do exceeding, abundantly above
all that we ask or think.
With Him, nothing is impossible.
You understand the significance of the statement
when someone would say to you,
when you would say to someone,
I'm praying for you.
It's powerful.
It's a privilege that is ours.
I don't say to Armando and Deanna on Friday
when Camila was going to have her procedure,
I didn't just say, I'm thinking about you.
That's not what I texted you, is it?
Armando's not here this morning, he's home with Camila,
but that's not what I texted Armando.
Maria, when Manuel was going into surgery,
did I say I'm thinking about you?
No.
I'm praying.
Oftentimes, if you, I'd let you look at my text messages,
I don't have anything to hide,
but I sent text messages to pastor friends this morning.
And I didn't just say, I'm thinking about you.
I said, I'm praying for you,
and here's how I'm praying for you.
I'm praying that God would give you boldness
as you stand behind the sacred desk.
I'm praying that the people of God
would be attentive to the preaching of the Word of God,
that decisions would be made
that would glorify God Almighty.
That's how we pray one for another.
And listen, as a receiver, it encourages me.
As the one praying, it encourages me
when I get to hear how God worked and what God did.
We serve an awesome God.
And prayer is not designed
to just be a grocery list of my needs.
Amen?
It really isn't.
This aspect of intercessory prayer is biblical.
In fact, as I look to the Word of God,
I see more examples of intercessory prayer
than I do of personal prayer.
Not only do we see the example,
say it's great, we got some Bible truth.
How does it apply?
I would say this,
if I were giving you points this morning,
number two, purpose to engage in intercessory prayer.
Intercessory prayer.
Not only do we consider the example of intercessory prayer,
but when we see that example,
then we ought to purpose in our lives
to engage in intercessory prayer.
Now let me say this,
if you have not engaged in intercessory prayer,
if it's a new subject matter to you,
and you've not heard of this,
you've not been thoughtful of this truth,
then I would not expect you to be praying always,
night and day,
and all of these things that we see
in the life of the Apostle Paul,
but I would expect that you would purpose to engage
in that you would start somewhere
on engaging in intercessory prayer.
Here's the reality,
if I'm going to engage in intercessory prayer,
I need to have some knowledge and some information
in order to do so.
I'm not suggesting this morning
that we want to know every detail
about one another's lives and so on and so forth,
but there's some specific things
that if I'm going to engage in intercessory prayer,
it's good for me to know,
to have the knowledge so that I can pray specifically.
There have been times in which,
I'll use Brother Mark as an example,
he's had some test or some things coming up,
and I knew about it,
he communicated it to me, why?
So I could pray for him.
Someone has a medical test that's coming up,
someone has an interview,
somebody has an opportunity
to share the gospel with someone,
we're able to pray specifically.
Ms. Joyce called Holly a couple of weeks ago,
I don't remember the exact date,
but Ms. Joyce called Holly and said,
Holly, I'd like to ask if you and your family
could pray for Wally, Joyce's son Wally.
And she says this on the phone to Holly,
I did not speak to Ms. Joyce,
she spoke to Wally.
And she said, Wally met somebody this morning
and was able to give a gospel tract to him
is my understanding,
and they were able to speak about the gospel
for just a moment,
and Wally invited him to have dinner at five o'clock
and they have a meeting scheduled,
and Wally's whole purpose
is to give that man the gospel,
would you pray?
You know what we did?
I'm not patting myself on the back,
but you know what we did?
At 4.57,
we stopped as a family,
and we prayed.
We prayed.
We said, God, you're the God of the universe.
And this appointment is scheduled,
and Wally purposes to share the gospel,
would you soften the heart of this man?
Would you help him to understand?
Would you help Wally to have wisdom and discernment,
and to have clarity?
Can I tell you the devil was working,
he got in a small accident on the way.
The devil was at work.
But can I tell you what happened?
I think it was the next day that Ms. Joyce called Holly,
it might have been that evening,
I don't recall exactly the details,
but she said, I could hear over here,
Joyce's excitement.
Holly, I wanted to let you know that Muhammad got saved.
Hoo, glory to God.
We're excited about it.
I don't know Muhammad.
I don't know him.
Wally's not a member of Fellowship Baptist Church.
But I could pray for him.
In fact, I don't even know that Wally knew
that I prayed for him.
It doesn't really matter.
But we prayed, and guess what?
We get to rejoice together in the salvation of a soul
that will now spend eternity in the presence of God.
I may never meet this man on this earth,
but one glorious day, when we're all assembled in heaven,
we'll get to see people that got saved, isn't that wonderful?
And we look and we understand the importance
of engaging in intercessory prayer.
Let me share with you in James chapter number five.
We're gonna look at a New Testament truth,
and then we're gonna go back to the Old Testament.
and we're going to be done. James chapter 5, only two points this morning, amen? I
let you off easy. James chapter number 5, verse 13, is any among you afflicted? Let
them pray. Is any merry? Let them sing psalms. Is any sick among you? Let them
call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him
with oil in the name of the Lord. Notice verse 15, in the prayer of faith shall
save the sick. The Lord shall raise him up and if he hath committed sins they
shall be forgiven him. I want you to really focus on verse 16. The Bible says
confess your faults one to another. Notice and pray one for another that you
may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.
I personally am guilty and I think many have been guilty of quoting the last
part of verse number 16. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man
availeth much. It's a great Bible truth, but in the context of that verse we are
instructed to pray one for another, to be engaged. We see the example in the
Scriptures, but oh that we would purpose as the people of God to engage in the
ministry of intercessory prayer. Can I tell you this morning, we had a deacon's
meeting yesterday in preparation for our annual business meeting next Sunday
night. I told our deacons yesterday morning, I said if there's ever been a
time that we need to pray one for another, it's now. The devil's working. He
knows his time is short, by the way, and he's working. Oh that we would engage in
the ministry of intercessory prayer on the behalf of one another. And what a
privilege it is. And we see that we're to pray one for another and we have this
hope, this expectation, this confidence that the effectual fervent prayer of a
righteous man availeth much. I was reading a story this morning about a man
and it's a long lengthy story about a man that was preaching at the turn of
the really the 20th century, so well over a hundred years now ago, that he was
preaching and he was going to he was in the Midwest and he was heading out to
California to preach a meeting and he had the opportunity to cross paths with
a husband and wife that were at the church in which he was preaching there
in the Midwest. And they said, could we meet with you just for a little while?
Our son, his name is Jim, he's lost. He ran off a long time ago and
he's gonna be in California. And we understand that you're going to
California to preach. Now have you seen a map of California? Have you ever
been there? I lived in California. It's a big place. But they said he lives, they
don't even know where he lives in California. They had received word that a
friend of theirs saw him. No idea. Didn't have a chance to talk to him, not heard
anything from him. But we understand he's in California and we understand that
you're going to preach in California. We're gonna pray every day at this
time in this place and we want you to commit with us to pray. And then they
began to pray every day. They had a meeting. It was very interesting the way that the
meeting worked. They assembled somewhere else and walked through the town to come
to the place where the preaching would be. Singing along the way. It was like a
half-hour walk. That's pretty cool. And they passed a pub saloon along the way
and that man Jim was in there and he heard those people singing. He said, you
know I'm gonna follow them. And after a little while he sobered up and he was
there in the meeting and he heard the preaching of the Word of God and he got
saved. It's amazing. God answers prayer. And as we engage in the ministry of
intercessory prayer one for another, notice in the Old Testament, go back to the book of
1st Samuel if you will. We'll close here with this truth in 1st Samuel chapter
number 12. As we look at this passage of Scripture I want you to note two things
about the verse. Number one, I want you to note the heart of Samuel. But I also
want you to note the seriousness of the subject. We see in here the heart of
Samuel but we also see the seriousness of the subject in context so that we
understand what's going on here. You understand that at this point in Israel's
history they had not yet had a king. But they desired a king. Give us a king! We
want to be like all the other nations, right? That's what they said. Samuel's
heart was broken over this. Samuel was struggling with this whole situation
with regard to their desire and the heart of the nation of Israel and
wanting a king. Why? Because they understood that it was a theocracy, that God was their
king. Now they want a man to be their king. And Samuel is going to address the
nation of Israel and he has been a faithful servant of the Lord. We will
not take time to get into the entirety of Samuel addressing the people but we
find that as he's addressing them he's challenging them. And then the passage
really turns back to himself for he says in verse 23 of 1st Samuel 12, he says
moreover as for me. So we know the heart of Samuel. He sees what's going on in the
nation in a broader sense and he's he's hurting because of it. But at the end of
this passage he says moreover as for me. God forbid that I should sin against the
Lord in ceasing to pray for you. Is that not serious? You see the heart of Samuel
but you see the seriousness of the subject. He says God forbid that I should
sin against the Lord in ceasing to pray for you. Now think about that just for a moment.
I'm not sure that we think in this fashion that we think that if I fail to
engage in intercessory prayer that it's it's sinning against the Lord. We
understand here that Samuel is revealing to us the seriousness of the
subject matter which is before us. He continues and says I will teach you the
good in the right way. Only fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all
your heart for consider how great things he had done for you. But if you shall do
wickedly you shall not you shall be consumed both he and your king. But we
focus on verse 23 in his heart and the seriousness of the subject. Why is it
perhaps that as we read the New Testament that we see so often referenced
this subject of intercessory prayer? I am praying for you. We are praying for you.
Brethren pray for us. When you go to God in prayer pray that God would help not
only pray for all the Saints but for me that I would have boldness. We see it all
throughout the New Testament. The example is there but when we look at the example
we could walk away and say well that's nice I'm glad that Paul wasn't you know
he thought it was important. No that we would purpose as believers in 2021 that
we're going to engage in the ministry of intercessory prayer. It's gonna take
time. It just is. By the way prayer takes time. Prayer is work. You know why prayers
work? Because the devil doesn't want you to pray. He doesn't. Prayers work. Don't
raise your hand but how many of you have ever tried to pray? It seems like your
mind just gets so distracted. There are so many other things that come up. There's
an interruption. There's a phone call. There's a text message. There's a
whatever. Happens often. I've shared in the past I like to pray out loud. Why? It
helps me to stay focused. If I'm just praying silently my mind can ramble all
over the place and I don't even know who I just got done praying. I'm just being
honest. It happens. I did something. I wouldn't I would challenge you to do it.
It was it was a little bit I don't know what the right word to be sobering maybe.
You know what I did one morning Brother Mark? I recorded myself praying out loud.
I took my phone and I placed it there and I hit record and I recorded as I
prayed. You know why I did it? So I could hear what was I praying for. Did I stay
focused? Did I ramble? Did I get distracted? It was a good exercise. I've
only done it once. Maybe I need to do it again but you understand. It was a good
exercise. This morning I hope that each one of us would understand the
importance of the subject matter but more importantly than understanding the
importance of the subject matter that we would purpose to engage in intercessory
prayer that we would take the time to say to another believer, how can I pray
for you? How can I pray for you? Specifically, how can I pray for you?
Because I'm gonna go to God in prayer. I'm gonna seek the Almighty Omnipotent
God on your behalf.
have. That's powerful, and that is a privilege that is ours. We normally have
just one special in a service. There's a song that Julianna has worked on for
being able to sing at some point, and I asked her this morning, I said, Julianna,
do you have that song that you could sing for us at the end of the message?
It's called, I can pray for you. I can pray for you. I've asked Julianna before
we have our invitation this morning if she would come and sing that song, and I
hope that it would just encourage you, challenge you, to think about the
privilege that is ours to pray one for another.